you know I grew up in a little town
about 25 miles east of here tall stop
City Missouri and you know the way I
like to explain that to everybody I had
five brothers and sisters and and you
know we grew up just as poor as anybody
else and you know the only place my dad
ever took us was to an auction or to a
rodeo and pretty much my whole life
that's all I ever want to do is go to an
auction you know I grew up with trading
kids with the neighbors and then I ended
up you know going to auction school when
I was 13 years old and started having
like farm auctions and antique auctions
and farm machinery auctions and we sold
a lot of cattle at farm sales back in
those days and and I was forced enough
to work with a man named Frank Hall and
he got me started in the business and as
it came along through the years you know
I started trading calves with the
neighbors and and the at the local
auction barns and in 1977 when I
graduated from high school and got I
actually got married when I was 18 to my
to my high school sweetheart
and I went to Joplin and went to work at
the stockyards there I ended up buying
the Joplin Commission company and in
1986 actually run it that way for
several years I had an opportunity to
buy the Joplin stockyards and as a whole
that you know the yard company plus the
Commission company so we did that we run
it at that facility until 1995 when we
moved out here to where we're at today
and on i-40 for at exit 20 - and we've
operated here ever since then well you
know way I like to describe it and of
course it's mine and I'm among you I'm
pretty proud of it you know we designed
it ourselves it's a fast flowing cattle
environment where cattle flow really
good you know the flow of a barn is
really really important it's got 23
alleys that feed the rain you know when
in three Elie's that go out of the ring
you know it all cattle here have water
and hay at their free choice so we would
try to enhance the health of cattle
through doing a lot of those different
types of things because we came into the
90s and the late 90s and we started our
value-added program where we we know
exactly what shots they get them late
people tried we tried to make them
understand you know they need a virus
shot they need a Pasteurella shot they
need a black flag shot it's going to
enhance the health of those cattle as we
as they move on through
system as they go to a backgrounder in
the West or as they go to a feed yard
they stay more healthy for those people
so there are more willing participants
in our oxygen here they come and buy
your cattle with knowing that the
helping of those cattle is going to be
way better and it has been in the past
and you know it's I call it a state of
the art facility that you know with it
anybody be proud to run into their own
because it's functional it works not
only is it it's designed really well if
it works the very best you know in the
livestock marketing business comes from
to the heart in my opinion because you
know all through the years I you know I
could tell you how our calves sold in
the fall of the year when I was a kid by
the way we live for the next year but
you know like I've often said that you
know out there we never knew if we was
making any money or not we just knew how
big the pile was when we market those
kids in the fall you know once the pile
was this tall or whether it was this
tall we can manage the live for a whole
nother year on it and that's called
management well you know five ten years
down the road I've got three children
and I've got eight grandchildren and you
know this has been the love of my life
and those along with my family and it's
a family business and I've got a my
brother-in-law Steve Owens is my partner
here we've been partners since we was 18
years old I think our role and the
auction business is good for another
generation I guess any further than that
I don't need to think
anyway